- Okay we are live for the
"Falsehoods of Fitness" episode
"TRT is an Advantage".
TRT stands for testosterone
replacement therapy.
So let's get some people in here.
All right Instagram is doing
much better than Facebook
is right now.
Hey Andrew, how ya doing?
Super, so even though I
promised there was only one
reference I would get to
per one of these shows,
yeah I'm gonna already break
that rule 'cause there's
a couple of pretty good ones.
Not all of 'em are clinical,
one was done by CNBC
just pulling in some data
for testosterone replacement
which I thought was pretty interesting.
Apparently prescriptions
are rapidly on the rise.
And I'll wait for a second
to get to some of the,
some of the hardcore information.
And I will say like the
reason, I'll repeat this when
(coughs) we get a decent amount
of people paying attention,
that the reason I wanted to do
this "Falsehoods of Fitness"
was a number of people wanted
to know like what really
is TRT and like is it
something I really like want
or need or something like that.
Or sometimes I'm at a
conference, health, fitness
or even medical conference
and I get some young guy
coming up to me and he says,
"Hey, how do I get like
a prescription for that?"
And I'll say, "How old are you?"
The guy says, "I'm 25 years old."
You wouldn't want a prescription for that
because you may end up
with lower testosterone
after you start taking testosterone.
Maybe even your prescribed
dosage won't turn out as well
as what you have naturally in your system
and then you don't really
wanna be on like an injectable
chemical for a long period of time.
So, you know, like there's
obviously some people who
don't understand really anything about it
and think it's somehow an
advantage and it's just not.
Really designed for
people with deficiencies.
So okay, we've got a
whole bunch of people.
Should I answer a couple of
questions first do you think?
Just give it another couple of minutes.
No, okay, I'll go ahead and start.
(coughing)
So, I'll repeat what I said,
many people, even in our
Facebook comments, people will say,
"Well, I wanted a prescription," or,
"this guy has testosterone
replacement therapy,"
'cause I mentioned that when I
was on Dave Ashbridge's show.
And what we saw with Dave Ashbridge's show
what was on Dave As, you
just turn that, there you go,
thank you, thank you (laughs).
So, the question was asked,
"Do you take testosterone?"
So I've had a deficiency
since I was in my early 20s
from just getting nailed
hard on a rugby field.
I just got hit, you know, I
had some testicular damage,
got a prescription for
testosterone replacement.
It's like right, right
when I was graduating
and I played a little bit
for a club team after that.
Played some rugby sevens after that.
And so I went to my
physician and I was like--
- [Camera Man] Shabby says, "Hey."
- Hey, hey Shabby.
So, I went to see my physician
and I was being short
of breath on the field
but I had been running.
A rookie game is 80 minutes of running.
So I was very strong and I
was running all the time.
I played one of the faster positions,
I played outside center which is kind
of like a wide receiver.
And so I'd be running all the
time and now I'm having like
a shortness of breath and so
what the physician said is you
have some serious weak cardiac muscle.
And I said, "What they hell
are you talking about?"
Like, "I'm an athlete,
like my heart's weak?"
And he said, "Well I'm sending
you to the endocrinologist."
So, went to the
endocrinologist and he says,
"You have 100 CC3 nanograms
per deciliter of testosterone.
"Normal is between 350 and 1,000."
Now, certain genetic groups of
people have higher or lower,
it's the main system by the way
not the one in here, (coughs).
So, certain groups have
higher, like African-Americans
have higher levels of
testosterone than Caucasians,
Europeans and then the
Hispanics are a little bit lower
than that and typically Asian people
are a little bit lower than that.
But everybody lands
within that 350 to 1,000
nanograms per deciliter.
And there's other normal, you
know, normal levels based on
different studies but most
physicians stay right in there.
But I had 100 CC3 and so I said,
"Well, you know I had an
injury," and so I was prescribed
testosterone because he told me,
"If you don't strengthen
your cardiac muscle,"
"which you probably
can't function very well
"without this prescription,
then you may have a heart attack
"in your 30s."
And so I was like, I dunno well
that made that pretty easy.
So, (coughs) part of my
interest in physical medicine
was driven by this experience.
And so then getting these
questions and also having my
research a few years ago branch
out into anabolic hormones
getting the body to
trigger anabolic hormones
so that's one thing that's
with the programming of X3
and with all the other
things that I recommend.
Lot of trainers, a lot of sports
physiologists look towards
activating a muscle to the highest degree
not towards any endocrine change
whereas I'm trying to look
only in endocrine changes.
If your body triggers an
anabolic hormone to go up
after you do an activity
that's a much greater indicator
that your body wants to grow something
than just torturing the muscle
because obviously if a
growth factor increases
chances are that muscle's gonna change
and we have the research
that shows that too.
So everything that I'm
encouraging people to do
is focused on those
strong hormonal changes.
Now, when you look at normal
levels of testosterone,
so there's a 1996 study
"Declining androgens
with age: An overview".
So, this was pulling in a
bunch of different research
so it's metadata.
I just wanna show everybody this.
So you can see the highest
levels of testosterone
are actually for people
that are in their late 30s
and early 40s.
Right, so somebody like me,
if I didn't have any challenge
or an issue or damage, I
would not want a prescription
for testosterone 'cause
right now I'm at the peak
for my age.
So when somebody says, "Oh
there's a guy in his 40s
"and he's in great shape, it must be TRT."
That person is just a stupid person
they don't know what
they're talking about.
So, and it's amazing how
many of those there are
on the internet.
So what we, what we see
here is when you're,
when everything's fine that's
when you get your peak levels
and when you get the
prescription it brings you right
to your peak levels.
The R in testosterone replacement,
the TRT the R means replacement.
It doesn't mean you get more.
It's just replacement.
So there's patients that
get testosterone replacement
and they don't see anything happen.
And in fact the, probably
one of the larger labs,
I'm friends with the owner,
I was a patient of that
lab for many many years
and so what he says to
me is like, he loves X3
because he gets everybody
to take testosterone
and then he gets them into X3.
So obviously they're
gonna put heavier loads
based on the way X3 works.
You're kinda tricking your
body into heavier loads
and then with more repetitions
and then that up regulates something else.
Now what's the something else?
This is the really important
part of the conversation
and in fact I was waiting
to find like the exact right
reference that explained this
because I knew it to be true
but it just so happens
that a couple of days ago
a new study published.
This is Morton and the
researchers, there's a whole list
of 'em, Morton and
researches and it's called
"Muscle androgen receptors not hormones
induce skeletal muscle hypertrophy".
So what does that mean?
That means that it's
the amount of receptors
that you have active not the amount
of testosterone in your system.
Which also goes to the
amount of free testosterone
that you hear about.
Well the amount of free
testosterone is testosterone
that can be appropriated
to an androgen receptor.
Well that, calling it free
testosterone is like a mysterious
function of the body
that has to do with age.
Does it or is that getting
cause and effect backwards?
I would say it's getting
cause and effect backwards
based on this study because the amount
of potential receptors
you have is how much
of that chemical is gonna
find its way into the muscle
and then cause growth.
So, now that we know this somebody who,
and this is why somebody can
take an anabolic chemical
and then if they don't
workout or they workout
with really light weight nothing happens,
they don't change at all.
And hence like what has
been seen with that TRT lab
that I know the owner of (coughs).
There's just so many of these
guys they get the hormone
in their system and then
they just don't find time
to exercise or they exercise really light
because they're afraid of getting hurt
and absolutely nothing happens.
They don't build muscle because
you gotta put heavy load
through the muscle to up
regulate the amount of receptors
that are looking for it.
So that's really the summation
on testosterone replacement therapy.
It's not really anything
you want unless you really
have a deficiency and then
as long this deficiency
is addressed it's not gonna
get you really beyond anywhere
normal unless your
putting tremendous loads
through the body.
I had a strategy of doing that
but that's true in general as well.
So, that kind of concludes,
I'm sure there's a ton of questions.